# **Cloud native infrastructure vulnerabilities**

## **Introduction** 

Cloud infrastructure refers to a framework that allows businesses to
access computing resources such as servers, storage, and applications
over the internet, distinctively differentiating it from traditional
on-premise systems. This shift to cloud-based solutions has gained
prominence due to the myriad benefits it offers, including :

-   Enhanced flexibility,

-   Scalability,

-   Cost efficiency,

The fundamental properties of cloud infrastructure encompass several key
features:

-   **On-demand self-service**

-   **Broad network access**

-   **Resource pooling**

-   **Rapid elasticity**

-   **Measured service**

-   **Abstraction and Simplification**

-   **Backup and Disaster Recovery**

**Self-service** allows users to provision resources autonomously, while
**broad network** access ensures connectivity from diverse devices.
**Resource pooling** provides a shared infrastructure for multiple
clients, and **rapid elasticity** enables dynamic scaling according to
fluctuating workloads. Furthermore, the **measured service** model
offers detailed monitoring of resource usage, enhancing cost management
and operational optimization. Lastly, cloud infrastructure provides a
level of **abstraction and simplification** reducing the technical
expertise required for systems management, while **backup and disaster
recovery** are also simplified, providing levels of redundancy and
reliability that is often more robust than traditional DR solutions.

Despite its advantages, the transition to cloud infrastructure is not
without challenges. Concerns surrounding data **security**,
**compliance**, and potential **vendor lock-in** remain prominent.
Security vulnerabilities inherent to shared resources and the need for
robust compliance frameworks can deter businesses from fully embracing
cloud solutions.
